AWS

i) EMR
ii) Redshift
iii) RDS
iv) IAM
v) Kinesis

Airflow
Databricks
Boto 3

Ingestion
Kuch Kuch
Reporting

AWS is Amazon's cloud web-hosting platform.
With this cloud, we need not plan for servers and other IT infrastructure which takes up much of time in advance.

Cloud computing is an internet-based computing service 
in which large groups of remote servers are networked to allow centralized data storage.
Three types of clouds:
Public - service providers make resources and services available to their customers via Internet.
Private - only for the customer’s organization.
Hybrid - combination of both public and private.

S3 stands for Simple Storage Service. It allows the users to store and retrieve various types of data using API calls. 

EC2 is a cloud web service solution, which can be used for hosting your application. 
Basically, it's like a huge computer machine which runs either Windows or Linux and is capable
of handling whatever software or application you install on it.

S3 is more a data storage solution/service. Is used to store important data.
It's like a huge hard-disk, where any amount of data can be stored and accessed, with very less I/O overheads.

Amazon has other storage and database services, like
RDS - for relational databases
DynamoDB - for NoSQL.

EC2 components:
i) OS support
ii) Security
iii) Pricing

An EC2 instance is a virtual server in Amazon's Elastic Compute Cloud (EC2) for running applications
on the AWS infrastructure.

Elastic Load Balancing (ELB) automatically distributes incoming request traffic across multiple Amazon EC2 instances and results in achieving higher fault tolerance. 
It detects unfit instances and automatically reroutes traffic to fit instances until the unfit instances have been restored in a round-robin manner.

ELB has three components:
i) Load Balancer
ii) Control Service
iii) SSL Termination

Amazon WorkSpaces is a fully managed desktop computing service in the cloud that allows its customers to provide cloud-based desktops to their end-users. 
Through this the end users can access the documents, applications, and resources using devices of their choice such as laptops, iPad, Kindle Fire, or Android tablets. 
This service was launched to meet its customers rising demand for Cloud based 'Desktop as a Service' (DaaS).






